Add documentation for protected content in the Delivery API (#5410)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 12/umbraco-cms/reference/content-delivery-api/protected-content-in-the-delivery-api.md

To terminate the active session for any given member, you must redirect the browser to the signout endpoint. The request must contain one of the white-listed `LogoutRedirectUrls` from the `appsettings.json`:

```http
GET /umbraco/delivery/api/v1/security/member/signout?post_logout_redirect_uri={valid URL from LogoutRedirectUrls}
```

## Testing with Swagger

The Delivery API Swagger document can be configured to support member authentication.

Before we can do that, we need two things in place:

1. We have to implement a login page [as described above](./#logging-in-members).
2. We must add `https://{server-host}/umbraco/swagger/oauth2-redirect.html` to the configured `LoginRedirectUrls`.

With these in place, we can enable member authentication in Swagger for the Delivery API by adding the following to `Startup.cs`:

{% code title="Startup.cs" %}
```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.ConfigureOptions<Umbraco.Cms.Api.Delivery.Configuration.ConfigureUmbracoMemberAuthenticationDeliveryApiSwaggerGenOptions>();

    // ...
}
```
{% endcode %}

The Swagger UI will now feature authorization.

> Remember to use `umbraco-member` as `client_id` when authorizing. `client_secret` can be omitted, as it is not used by the authorization flow.

Author: Let's do that. 👍 will amend

        <span asp-validation-for="@loginModel.Password"></span>
    </div>

    <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">Log in</button>
}
</body>
</html>
```
{% endcode %}

With all this in place, it's time to test the setup. Use a browser to perform a request to `https://{server-host}/umbraco/delivery/api/v1/security/member/authorize` with these query string parameters:

- `client_id=umbraco-member`
- `redirect_uri=https://absolute.redirect.url/path/after/login` (replace the value with one of the configured login redirect URLs)
- `response_type=code`
- `code_challenge=WZRHGrsBESr8wYFZ9sx0tPURuZgG2lmzyvWpwXPKz8U`
- `code_challenge_method=S256`

If everything works as expected, the request will yield a redirect to the login page. Completing the login form will cause a redirect to the specified redirect URL with a `code` query string parameter. The `code` can subsequently be exchanged for an access token, which can be used to access protected content.

{% hint style="info" %}
Do not worry about the URL construction and subsequent handling of the `code` parameter. This complexity is what the OpenId Connect client libraries handle for us.
{% endhint %}

> For more inspiration on using the built-in member authentication, visit [this tutorial](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cms/tutorials/members-registration-and-login). Here you will also learn how to create member sign-up functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more inspiration on using the built-in member authentication, check the [Members Registration and Login](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cms/tutorials/members-registration-and-login) article. Here you will also learn how to create member sign-up functionality.
```

        });

        return builder;
    }

    private class GitHubMemberExternalLoginProviderOptions : IConfigureNamedOptions<MemberExternalLoginProviderOptions>
    {
        public void Configure(string? name, MemberExternalLoginProviderOptions options)
        {
            if (name is not $"{Constants.Security.MemberExternalAuthenticationTypePrefix}{Scheme}")
            {
                return;
            }

            Configure(options);
        }

        public void Configure(MemberExternalLoginProviderOptions options)
            => options.AutoLinkOptions = new MemberExternalSignInAutoLinkOptions(
                autoLinkExternalAccount: true,
                defaultCulture: null,
                defaultIsApproved: true,
                defaultMemberTypeAlias: Constants.Security.DefaultMemberTypeAlias);
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

Finally, we need to invoke the connection configuration by calling `AddGitHubAuthentication()` in `Startup.cs`.

{% code title="Startup.cs" %}
```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddUmbraco(_env, _config)
        // ...
        .AddGitHubAuthentication()
        .Build();
}
```
{% endcode %}

> Now we can test the setup. Again we'll be calling `https://{server-host}/umbraco/delivery/api/v1/security/member/authorize` as described previously, but we need to add one more query string parameter:

Reviewer: Again and previously seem to be the in the same sentence 🤔 
```suggestion
Now we can test the setup. We'll be calling `https://{server-host}/umbraco/delivery/api/v1/security/member/authorize` as described previously, but we need to add one more query string parameter:
```

```

## Testing with Swagger

The Delivery API Swagger document can be configured to support member authentication.

Before we can do that, we need two things in place:

1. We have to implement a login page [as described above](./#logging-in-members).
2. We must add `https://{server-host}/umbraco/swagger/oauth2-redirect.html` to the configured `LoginRedirectUrls`.

With these in place, we can enable member authentication in Swagger for the Delivery API by adding the following to `Startup.cs`:

{% code title="Startup.cs" %}
```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.ConfigureOptions<Umbraco.Cms.Api.Delivery.Configuration.ConfigureUmbracoMemberAuthenticationDeliveryApiSwaggerGenOptions>();

    // ...
}
```
{% endcode %}

The Swagger UI will now feature authorization.

{% hint style="info" %}
Remember to use `umbraco-member` as `client_id` when authorizing. `client_secret` can be omitted, as it is not used by the authorization flow.
{% endhint %}

## Client configuration samples

The following samples show how to configure an ASP.NET Core client to utilize member authorization in the Delivery API.

> To put these samples into context, please refer to the article above.

Author: It's all the previous sections of this article. We have opted to move the samples to the very end of the article, to keep the flow as clear as possible. Does that make sense?

> To put these samples into context, please refer to the article above.

Reviewer: ah I see now! Then all is good 👍
